# Extend MultiVeStA with a new simulator #

In the following are described the steps that must be followed to integrate your simulator in MultiVeStA, if it does not belongs to the list of currently supported simulators and if it is Java-based.

It is possible to use MultiVeStA also with non Java-based simulator through wrapping approach. Follow the steps described in our [http:// paper] or contact us.

  * Create a new Java project referencing the latest version of MultiVeStA.jar [downloaded from this site](https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B1wH4SBkfGwYUklocFMtSWlIMkU/edit?usp=sharing)
  * Add visibility of your simulator
  * extend the _NewState_ class (as described below)
  * package the project in a new MultiVeStA.jar with the support for your simulator

## Extend _NewState_ class of _MultiVeStA_ ##
In the following are described the methods that must be implemented to extend the _NewState_ class.

  * All parameters that the user pass to MultiVeStA client that are not direclty used by the MultiVeStA engine are stored in _**params**_ and can be retrieved through _**params.getOtherParameters()**_. These optional parameters corresponds to the ones provided with the _**ssp**_ options.

  * _**setSimulatorForNewSimulation( int seed )**_ is called by MultiVeStA to order the simulator to reinitialize the simulator with the provided seed. The seeds generated by MultiVeStA are obtained according the _Mersenne Twister_ algorithm.

  * _**performOneStepOfSimulation()**_ is called by MultiVeStA, when the _**osws**_ option is setted to _ONESTEP_, to order the simulator to advance the simulation of one step.

  * _**performWholeSimulation()**_ (_this is an optional parameter_) is called by MultiVeStA, when the _**osws**_ option is setted to _WHOLESIMULATION_, to order the simulator to advance until the simulation meet an internal halt condition (i.e., the simulation is completed).

  * _**rval( int which )**_ allows the evaluation of state observations **common to every model** built with the current analyzed simulator.